GD

1) Should Junk Foods Be Banned ? 
	
Yes – Junk food should be banned:
Junk food is not good for health.
In general, junk foods are highly processed foods and contains more calories and fewer nutrients when compared with healthy food.
Eating too much junk food causes obesity. And obesity leads to several health problems such as heart diseases, digestion issues etc.
It also affects mental health. As junk food slows down metabolism, it makes us lazy and thereby causes stress
Junk food is addictive in nature, which leads to increased consumption of junk food
Ban on junk food forces food companies to manufacture healthy snacks and thereby we can promote healthy eating.
UK banned advertising of junk food online and till 9 pm on TV. This step was taken to mitigate the influence of advertising on children’s food habits.

‘The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India’ brought ‘Food Safety and Standards (Safe food and healthy diets for Schoolchildren) regulations‘, 2019 to stop sales of junk food inside schools and within 50 meters of school campuses. But still, the consumption of junk food is high

But – Banning Junk foods is not the good choice:
Banning junk food is against the right to choice of food.
If we eat junk food in limited qualities, it won’t be much problem. Health problems arise when we take too much junk food. So, junk food itself is not the problem, but limiting the intake is the key.
Even some junk food products are marketed as healthy snacks. So, banning junk food is not a practical solution.
But taking steps to not allowing junk food companies to mislead children is a good thing.
Banning junk food near schools is a great step towards that goal.

2) Will Robots Replace Human Beings ? 

I believe robots will not replace humans because human skill causing the job market to evolve into something that values furthering knowledge rather than focusing on algorithmic tasks that a robot can even do. 
First of all, robots are mere information processing machines and do not carry the same skill sets as humans. 
Secondly, the jobs that do get taken by robots will allow humans to move on to more productive things that value creativity and problem solving, forcing the job market to expand.
Lastly, robots cannot create new knowledge and only work off of what has already been created by humans. 
Humans can feel emotions for each other which influences our decisions and actions.
But Robots can never think on its own and make decisions.
Even though AI today is replacing humans in many jobs, customers are almost always more satisfied with humans than with AIs.

For example, nowadays customer service executives are being replaced by AIs, especially chatbots. Surveys show that most customers prefer talking to an agent to chatting with a bot. Although they enjoy the quick response of the bot, in several situations a bot cannot function properly. If a customer has some issues with the product and needs a refund. In this case, customers prefer a human with whom they can reason over a chatbot.

There exists several professions that AI will never be able to take over. These include:-
Engineers:- Engineering is the art of creation. And everything an engineer creates comes from their ability to think and develop objects to tackle problems.Since an AI does not possess this ability to think, it will never be able to create an object on its own without any external input.
Lawyers:- A lawyer is often needed to bend the laws and find loopholes to save their clients.This requires a great deal of reasoning ability, which is not possible for an AI to have.
Counselors:- A counselor, counsels people over their mental health issues. An AI-induced machine that is incapable of feeling itself will never be able to counsel people and give them mental health advice.


It is not a complete impossibility that AIs at some point will take over humans and completely eradicate us.
To believe that just because AIs today are incapable of reasoning and making decisions does not mean that they will be the same in the coming future.
There is always the possibility that AI machines that are being taught to adapt to different scenarios and behave accordingly will at some point become independent of human influence altogether.


3) Social media influencers – Impact on youth

Social media influencers have a great impact on many people and especially youngsters. Even film celebrities are collaborating with influencers to promote their films.
Followers and especially youngsters feel closer to the influencers they follow because influencers interact with them frequently. And hence many youngsters follow social media influencers religiously and are influenced by what they say and promote.
As youngsters are spending more time on social media than people of other age groups, social media influencers have more impact on youngsters than others.
Brands are also preferring to collaborate with social media influencers over traditional celebrities due to the influence they have on youngsters
Influencer marketing is on the rise and is affecting the purchasing behaviour of youngsters. Moreover, youngsters are more likely to research the product before buying. And they will check the reviews by the influencers they follow.
Some influencers do not mention whether the content they created is sponsored or not. They promote products for money and mislead the youngsters. A few influencers are also creating paid content in favour of political parties.
The food habits of the youngsters are also shaping up by the influencers they follow.
As influencers are creating attention-grabbing content, several youngsters are wasting their precious time by watching the content.


With great power comes great responsibility. So, social media influencers should be socially responsible. They should avoid doing things that have the possibility of influencing people negatively.

Some social media influencers genuinely review the products they used. By watching their reviews, people are saving money and are avoiding bad purchases.
There are so many influencers on social media that promote positive things such as body positivity, financial awareness, ethical values etc.
They should choose to follow genuine influencers who are ethical and socially responsible.
Parents and teachers also have the responsibility to make their children aware of the positive and negative impact of social media celebrities on their daily lives.
Regulations should be there on influencer marketing to mitigate the negative impact and to prevent the misuse of fame.


4) Should Driverless cars be allowed in India?

These cars are capable of sensing their environment and navigating without human intervention.

Estimates suggest nearly 80% of car crashes are due to human error. Self-driving cars can eliminate the possibility of human error and hence reduces the number of accidents.
Driverless cars can help in reducing traffic by taking the route that has less traffic using ‘vehicle to vehicle’ (v2v) communication.
Autonomous cars can be used by people with special needs to drive safely on the roads. They can travel anywhere without depending on anyone.
Some of the driving licenses are not genuine, which makes the traffic conditions worse. Therefore, autonomous cars could be a way to solve this problem.
The majority of driverless cars are going to be Electric Vehicles (EVs) which will help in decreasing the pollution level in the country, which is also one of the major issues the country is facing.



Traffic on Indian roads is diverse due to the presence of different types of vehicles such as auto-rickshaws, rickshaws, hard-carts, trucks and cycles and animals such as cows, camels and elephants. Therefore, technology cannot be operated smoothly in this environment.
Autonomous vehicle technology is going to be costly and out of the reach of average Indians, making it a status symbol for the few thus enlarging the gap between the rich and the poor.
In case of traffic jams or traffic light failure, traffic police officers direct the traffic but in this case, these cars won’t understand the human signals which will make it difficult to control the traffic, especially when these cars are going to be driven in conjunction with conventional vehicles.
These cars would also require human monitoring to some extent. At present, a human emergency driver is required while an autonomous car is on the road.
New service stations need to be set up for the maintenance of these cars hence, which can be a costly choice considering the present status of the world economy.
Furthermore, autonomous vehicle technology can have a negative effect on the employment problem of the country. For taxi drivers, Uber, Ola, and similar taxi services remain as a source of employment. Once autonomous taxi services become mainstream, these companies will have a tendency to shift towards them for they will be cost-friendly and safer. 

In the year 2019, Mr Nitin Gadkari, the Road and Transport Minister of India said that he won’t allow driverless cars in India as it will result in job losses, instead, India will focus on training drivers with adequate skills that will create 50 lakh jobs and also aims to improve the public transport in the country. 


5) Money or Happiness – Can money make us happy?

		“Money can’t buy happiness, neither can poverty.”

When we do not have sufficient money for our basic needs, it is difficult to be happy while struggling hard to earn money to survive for the next month. When there is no need to work from paycheck to paycheck, there will be peace and peace can give us happiness.

Money can buy you time. For example, we can hire people to take care of daily house chores, and in turn can have more time to do the things we enjoy, in that way money brings happiness.
Having money enables us to spend on our loved ones, which will make us happy.
When we have more than enough money, we can donate the money to any cause and can take part in making the world a better place to live in. That can give us satisfaction in life and thereby happiness

It’s all about the mindset. Even if someone is struggling , he/she can choose to be happy.

Having so much money doesn’t guarantee happiness. She/he may have personal problems or family issues or just a lack of peace. Happiness depends on so many things and not just money. So, money cannot give happiness.
Sometimes we have to sacrifice a few things like family time, personal time etc. to earn money. In such cases, if the things we sacrificed are much more important to us than money then we can say that money can also make us unhappy. It’s important to know how to balance work and personal life.


6) Should ‘Group Discussion’ be compulsory in the hiring process?

GD or ‘Group Discussion‘ is a methodology conducted mainly by organizations to test a person’s eligibility and skills for a particular job.
This practice is evolved from Usenet in the early ’80s, an early computer network that was developed for the discussion of topics and sharing of files.
A list of skills is tested among which communication skills, leadership skills, interpersonal skills, analytical skills, reasoning ability, assertiveness, flexibility and creativeness are judged.

GD is good medicine for those who are shy and unsocial or introverts who prefer their own company. Taking them through a process where human interaction and public speaking is required, will burst that bubble and arouse confidence within them which is required for an office environment

Group Discussions prepares the employees for a corporate life where they have to be excellent at speaking skills, efficient in interaction with bosses and clients, lead meetings and much more. GD proves to be the tutorial to these types of jobs and hence, it is a very crucial part to be tested before hiring. A corporate company would not like to hire an inefficient employee who would be a disaster in communicating and waste their revenues.

As GD involves communication along with proper reasoning, it instils confidence to speak opinions as well as gives the ability to think from new dimensions about topics and expand their knowledge from the others. 

It also prepares one for interviews in the future. With such advantages in hand, GD can be made compulsory for hiring.



A person with proper technical knowledge might be bad at GDs and may get rejected for the job causing a loss for the company. A GD is well and fine for a corporate based job, but not for technical jobs where meetings and discussions may be rare.


It follows from the previous point that a GD should not be the ultimate screening for hiring. GD can be a part of the employing process but other skills and qualifications should be kept in mind while selecting the candidates.

 Making GD compulsory while hiring might be a loss in terms of quality for non-corporate jobs where educational and technical efficiency is required.
For introverted and shy people, GD might be stressful at times.

 Stepping out of the comfort zone is always difficult and hence, GD seems very difficult for some people. Such an option for getting a job can be an additional burden. 

A Group Discussion is more of a technique than a test. It can be a way to find out a person’s attitude, personality, etiquette, potential and knowledge about the topic related to his job.



7) How would world be without engineers


A world without engineers would be drastically different from the one we know today. Engineers play a crucial role in designing, building, and maintaining the infrastructure and technologies that are integral to modern life. 

Lack of Infrastructure: 
			Engineers are responsible for designing and constructing buildings, bridges, roads, and other critical infrastructure. Without them, there would be a significant deficit in the development and maintenance of essential structures, leading to a less organized

No Technological Advancements: 
			Engineers are at the forefront of technological innovation. Without them, the progress in fields such as information technology, medicine, transportation, and communication would be severely hindered. Many of the devices and systems that we rely on today would not exist.

Limited Transportation: 
			Engineers contribute to the design of various modes of transportation, including cars, airplanes, trains, and ships. Without their expertise, transportation systems would be less efficient, less safe, and less accessible, impacting global connectivity and trade.

No Energy Solutions: 
			Engineers are instrumental in developing energy solutions, including power plants, renewable energy sources, and efficient distribution systems. A world without engineers would struggle to meet energy demands and face challenges in finding sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions.

Environmental Impact: 
			Engineers are involved in designing and implementing solutions to environmental challenges, such as pollution control and waste management. Without their expertise, environmental problems could escalate, leading to more significant ecological damage.

Healthcare Setbacks:
			Medical advancements heavily rely on engineering principles, from designing medical equipment to developing pharmaceuticals. The absence of engineers would impede progress in healthcare, limiting our ability to address and treat diseases effectively.

Communication Challenges: Engineers play a key role in developing communication technologies. Without them, the development of the internet, smartphones, and other communication tools would be severely stunted, impacting global connectivity and access to information.

			In essence, the world without engineers would be less developed, less connected, and less efficient. 


8) Is India ready to be a Cashless Economy?


Long before demonetizing 500 & 1000 rupee notes, Indian government is trying to increase cashless transactions through Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme, Jan Dhan accounts etc.
From the moment higher denomination notes are demonetized, cashless transactions have increased at a rapid rate.
Though India has a huge proportion of digital illiteracy, using debit card does not require much digital literacy.
Many state governments are working hard to spread the awareness of digital transactions.
Indian Government rolled out incentives for going digital in financial transactions. It introduced daily and weekly lucky draws to encourage digital transactions.


Till the moment 500 & 1000 rupee notes are demonetized, cash transactions constituted 85% among all the financial transactions in India.
Even after the demonetization move, cash transactions are still the king.
India has a huge population of digital illiterates. It’ll take a lot of time to transform everyone into digital literates.
No country is a fully cashless economy yet. India is still a developing country, and needs a lot time to transform itself into cashless economy.
Though no. of accounts have increased drastically after the demonetization move, once the scarcity of new notes is reduced, there is no guarantee that everyone will use that bank accounts.
With the recent hack of 32 lakh Rupay & Visa debit cards, there is a doubt in cyber security of Indian Banking. Before going for completely cashless economy, India needs to strengthen its cyber security first.

‘Sweden’ is closest to achieving cashless society. Cash transactions in Sweden constitutes to only 3%.

M-Pesa created a revolution in ‘Kenya’. The usage of M-Pesa is so high that even salaries are credited through it. Cash transactions decreased drastically in Kenya.



9) Isreal - Palestine War

Israel is currently in the midst of a conflict with Hamas, a Palestinian militant group that controls the Gaza Strip. The conflict began on 7th October 2023, when Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel, firing five thousand rockets into southern and central Israel. The conflict has been intensifying ever since.


What really happened?

On 7th October 2023, Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel, breaching Israeli borders via various means, including gliders and tunnels, and catching Israeli forces off guard.
The attack resulted in many deaths and several others were injured and caused significant damage in Israel.
The attack coincided with a significant Israeli annual festival, taking advantage of a perceived vulnerable moment.
Israel responded with airstrikes and ground operations to neutralise threats and protect its citizens, leading to a cycle of violence.
Israel has declared war, and currently, Israel is doing military operations in the Gaza Strip in Palestine to target Hamas terrorists with a mission to eradicate them all together.

Despite the esteemed reputation of Israeli intelligence, it appears there was a crucial oversight in accurately assessing the capabilities of Hamas, leading to a lack of adequate preparation and response.
Due to the possible misinterpretation of the threat, the Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) were also not prepared for the attacks by Hamas.
The Israeli military, while highly capable against conventional adversaries, struggles to effectively combat asymmetric warfare. Hamas and similar groups, being unconventional and highly motivated, presented a significant challenge to the conventional Israeli military, as they operate within civilian populations


This war will result in the displacement of many Palestinians and a refugee crisis in neighbouring countries.
This war could potentially lead to more future conflicts between Israel and Arab countries.
The US was in talks with Israel and Saudi Arabia to discuss an agreement normalising their relationship. However, due to this war, Saudi Arabia has suspended talks, which is detrimental to peace efforts in the region.
This conflict may also impact the plans of the India-Middle East-Europe Corridor (IMEC), which passes through Saudi Arabia and Israel. Implementation may not be possible if relations between Saudi Arabia and Israel do not normalise, raising concerns about IMEC security.
If this war is prolonged and Israel gets stuck in this war just like Russia is in Ukraine right now, the IMEC will no longer remain viable. This would be a significant setback to India’s interests.

The Israeli-Palestinian conflict persists, with Israel asserting its commitment to ensuring the safety of its citizens and the complete eradication of Hamas terrorists. Bringing about a resolution in this situation is undoubtedly challenging, but if attainable


10) Chennai Flood

Flooding often handicaps the affected community by adversely affecting its educational system, food availability, mobility and access to energy on a daily basis.

School authorities faced numerous challenges, ranging from the sudden need to shift and secure school records / admit cards and postpone exams, to maintaining physical infrastructure and equipping schools to serve as shelters. Following the event, school authorities faced yet another set of daunting tasks related to the resumption of the academic session (e.g. repairing and replacing furniture, etc.) in schools that had been shuttered (for 10 to 33 days) in various parts of the city.

Food logistics arrangements across the affected communities included the unavailability of manufacturing capacity and delivery mechanisms. The lack of accessibility to several parts of Chennai due to severe flooding made identification of delivery points and transport routes more difficult, which deprived some local communities of basic food supplies required for survival. During the first 24 hours of flooding, the main concern of the local supermarkets providing food supplies to surrounding areas, was to safeguard perishable items not only from getting wet but also to keep them from spoiling (since there was no electricity). However, it was critical for them to meet customer demand, keeping in mind the limited food availability and lack of communication within their management team.

First responders and information providers faced difficulties in providing accurate real time information to local communities on flooded areas, accessibility of roads, road condition, traffic flow and current weather scenario.

 several hospital staff were unable to get to work or extend their support due to being affected by the flood themselves. It was a greater challenge for hospital authorities, to safeguard patients admitted to Intensive and Critical Care units (ICU) or those under ventilation through maintenance of power supply.

The Chennai flood had a devastating impact on businesses, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), who were unprepared and vulnerable to both direct and indirect impacts. Flood water entered the first level of most of the offices and shops, reaching a height of approximately two meters in some areas. This damaged products, stocks, storage units, electrical equipment.

government officials — first responders, such as the fire department, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the police, in particular — faced a plethora of challenges and obstacles. They not only had the responsibility of conducting rescue operations, but also of road clearance and provision of other facilities to ensure supply of basic necessities throughout the affected communities

Private enterprises, such as restaurants, taxi service providers and automobile service centers, also joined hands with the government to provide relief to the flood affected population.
Vehicle service stations, such as Harsha Toyota collected and repaired cars that broke down due to water logging. 

Social media, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google Maps, played an important role in bringing all the service providers and individuals to work together for reducing the impact and helping the flood affected population recover better.




































































